# Assignments Week 10
# Introduction
The goal of this assignment is to use different protein structure prediction tools, and to compare their results. You will gain practical experience in performing homology modeling, as well as machine-learning based structure prediction. At the same time, you can continue to familiarize yourself with ChimeraX.
# Input data
You can use any entry in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) as your starting point. For the BS tasks, the entry should be a single protein, while for the MS task a complex/oligomer is needed.
# Tasks and output files
1)	Retrieve the protein sequence for a chain in your selected PDB entry (e.g. from the corresponding UniProt entry, or from the PDB entry itself). Introduce a change in the protein sequence. The change should be substantial enough to result in an altered protein structure, e.g.:
a.	Removing a chunk of the protein (>20 amino acids, located not at the N- or C-terminus). 
b.	Generating a chimeric protein (combination of domains from different proteins).
c.	Introduce G and/or P into secondary structures. 
d.	Exchanging hydrophobic amino acids with hydrophilic ones, and/or positively charged amino acids with negatively charged ones (change a large number of them, not just a few).
2)	Perform a homology modeling, e.g. using Swiss-Model, with this new sequence.
3)	Also use AlphaFold or ESMFold to predict the structure of the new protein sequence.
4)	Open the original PDB protein structure, the model generated by homology modeling, and the AlphaFold prediction in ChimeraX.
5)	Align all three structures using the matchmaker function in ChimeraX.
6)	Highlight the area of the protein that has the altered sequence.
7)	Use a script (e.g. Python) that can be executed within ChimeraX to solve tasks 4-6.
8)	Upload the following to your GitHub Classroom repository:
A)	Original .pdb file
B)	Result from Swiss-Model (as .pdb file)
C)	Result from AlphaFold (as .pdb file)
D)	Script for task 7.
E)	Original and altered protein sequence (can be included in the script)
# Additional MS student tasks (bonus credit for BS students)
9)	Use the protein sequences of a protein complex for which a PDB entry exists. The complex can be a homo- or hetero-oligomer (and smaller complexes will process faster than larger ones). Use the obtained protein sequences to predict the quaternary structure of the complex (e.g. via alphafoldserver.com). Compare the predicted structure with the experimentally resolved one using ChimeraX.
# Submission
You must submit the assignment through GitHub Classroom (or MyCourses) by 8 am ET on Apr 3 to get full credit.
